# Data Visualization Critique

For this assignment, I decided to critique the chart in the [CNBC article]<https://www.cnbc.com/2021/10/08/where-the-jobs-are-september-2021-chart.html> titled "Here's Where the Jobs Are - in One Chart". I have always been interested in policy discussions surrounding education, and am curious how the COVID-19 pandemic and related political tensions regarding mask mandates and vaccine mandates may affect our public schools. The artile makes the point that "[p]ublic schools often bouy the September jobs report as \[public school districts\] hire teachers, bus drivers, administrators, and other staff back for the start of the fall term... That did not happen as it normally does in 2021". However, the provided chart does not make it clear the impact of public school employment on overall employment numbers. Instead, the reader only finds out through further reading that Government employment includes public education employmnet at the state and local levels, with overall employment dereasing by 144,000 in local government education and 17,000 in state government education, seasonally adjusted.

In critiquing the visualization using Stephen Few's Data Visualization Effectiveness Profile, I identified both some pros of the visualizations that I'd like to keep, as well as found areas foor improvement. First, the visualization is easy to interpret; the bar graph format is familiar to readers and the usage of color immediately draws a distinction between sectors with job gains versus job losses. this is something that I'd like to keep in my re-design so that the resulting graphic is still accessible for the general readership of CNBC. There isn't a lot of clutter, although the chart is distintly missing a key note that the data are seasonally adjusted (potentially misleading readers). I may add a note to clarify the seasonal adjustment to improve the accuracy of the chart. Of course, one key area of improvement would be to break dow the public education numbers to directly support the key points of the article. Specifically, I think it would be helpful to break down the 'Government' category into state education, local education, and other government. I also realized that it would be helpful to provide some context as to what the 'September boost' can be expected to look in a normal (non-pandemic) year. This inspired me to look for prior years' data from the same source (Bureau of Labor Statistics) that could provide a visual benchmark of sorts in my re-design.

# Wireframing 

